Docs: Add "Going to production" page for App Router (#59304)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/09-deploying/01-production-checklist.mdx

---
title: Production Checklist
description: Recommendations to ensure the best performance and user experience before taking your Next.js application to production.
---

Before taking your Next.js application to production, there are some optimizations and patterns you should consider implementing for the best user experience, performance, and security.

This page provides best practices that you can use as a reference when [building your application](#during-development), [before going to production](#before-going-to-production), and [after deployment](#after-deployment) - as well as the [automatic Next.js optimizations](#automatic-optimizations) you should be aware of.

## Automatic optimizations

These Next.js optimizations are enabled by default and require no configuration:

> - **[Server Components](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components):** Next.js uses Server Components by default. Server Components run on the server, and don't require JavaScript to render on the client. As such, they have no impact on the size of your client-side JavaScript bundles. You can opt into using [Client Components](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components) when needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Server Components](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components):** Next.js uses Server Components by default. Server Components run on the server, and don't require JavaScript to render on the client. As such, they have no impact on the size of your client-side JavaScript bundles. You can then use [Client Components](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/client-components) as needed for interactivity.
```

- **[Code-splitting](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#how-routing-and-navigation-works):** Server Components enable automatic code-splitting by route segments. You may also consider [lazy loading](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/lazy-loading) Client Components and third-party libraries, where appropriate.

> - **[Prefetching](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#2-prefetching):** When a link to a new route enters the user's viewport, Next.js prefetches the route in background. This makes navigation to new routes almost istant. You can opt out of prefetching, where appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Prefetching](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#2-prefetching):** When a link to a new route enters the user's viewport, Next.js prefetches the route in background. This makes navigation to new routes almost instant. You can opt out of prefetching, where appropriate.
```

- **[`<Link>` component](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#link-component):** Use the `<Link>` component for [client-side navigation and prefetching](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#how-routing-and-navigation-works).
- **[Error Handling](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/error-handling):** Gracefully handle [catch-all errors](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/error-handling) and [404 errors](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/not-found) in production by creating custom error pages.
- **[Composition Patterns](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/composition-patterns):** Follow the recommended composition patterns for Server and Client Components, and check the placement of your [`"use client"` boundaries](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/composition-patterns#moving-client-components-down-the-tree) to avoid unnecessarily increasing your client-side JavaScript bundle.

> - **[Dynamic Functions](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#dynamic-functions):** Be aware that dynamic functions like [cookies](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies) and [useSearchParams](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-search-params) will opt the whole route into [Dynamic Rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#dynamic-rendering) (or your whole application if used in the [Root Layout](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts#root-layout-required)). Ensure dynamic function usage is intentional and wrap them in `<Suspense>` boundaries where appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Dynamic Functions](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#dynamic-functions):** Be aware that dynamic functions like [`cookies()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies) and [`useSearchParams()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-search-params) will opt the entire route into [Dynamic Rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#dynamic-rendering) (or your whole application if used in the [Root Layout](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts#root-layout-required)). Ensure dynamic function usage is intentional and wrap them in `<Suspense>` boundaries where appropriate.
```

> > **Good to know**: [Partial Prerendering](/blog/next-14#partial-prerendering-preview) will allow parts of a route to be dynamic without opting the whole route into dynamic rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Good to know**: [Partial Prerendering (Experimental)](/blog/next-14#partial-prerendering-preview) will allow parts of a route to be dynamic without opting the whole route into dynamic rendering.
```

- **[Route Handlers](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers):** Use Route Handlers to access your backend resources from Client Components. But do not call Route Handlers from Server Components to avoid an additional server request.
- **[Streaming](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming):** Use Loading UI and React Suspense to progressively send UI from the server to the client, and prevent the whole route from blocking while data is being fetched.
- **[Parallel Data Fetching](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/patterns#parallel-and-sequential-data-fetching):** Reduce network waterfalls by fetching data in parallel, where appropriate. Also, consider [preloading data](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/patterns#preloading-data) where appropriate.
- **[Data Caching](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#data-cache):** Verify whether your data requests are being cached or not, and opt into caching, where appropriate. Ensure requests that don't use `fetch` are [cached](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unstable_cache).

> - **[Static Assets](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/static-assets):** Use the `public` directory to automatically cache your application's static assets, e.g. images.

Reviewer: Or static image imports?

### UI and accessibility

- **[Font Module](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts):** Optimize fonts by using the Font Module, which automatically hosts your font files with other static assets, removes external network requests, and reduces [layout shift](https://web.dev/articles/cls).

> - **[`<Image>` Component](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/images):** Optimize images by using the Image Component, which automatically optimizes images, prevents layout shift, and serves them in modern formats like WebP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[`<Image>` Component](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/images):** Optimize images by using the Image Component, which automatically optimizes images, prevents layout shift, and serves them in modern formats like WebP or AVIF.
```

- **[Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#authentication-and-authorization):** Ensure users are authorized to call Server Actions. Review the the recommended [security practices](/blog/security-nextjs-server-components-actions).
- **[Environment Variables](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/environment-variables):** Ensure your `.env.*` files are added to `.gitignore` and only public variables are prefixed with `NEXT_PUBLIC_`.
- **[Content Security Policy](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/content-security-policy):** Consider adding a Content Security Policy to protect your application against various security threats such as cross-site scripting, clickjacking, and other code injection attacks.

### Metadata and SEO

- **[Metadata API](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/metadata):** Use the Metadata API to improve your application's Search Engine Optimization (SEO) by adding page titles, descriptions, and more.

> - **[Opengraph (OG) images](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata/opengraph-image):** Create OG images to prepare your application for social sharing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Open Graph (OG) images](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata/opengraph-image):** Create OG images to prepare your application for social sharing.
```

- **[Sitemaps](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-sitemaps) and [Robots](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata/robots):** Help Search Engines crawl and index your pages by generating sitemaps and robots files.

### Type safety

> - **TypeScript and [TS Plugin](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/typescript):** Use the TypeScript and the TypeScript plugin for better type-safety, and to help you catch errors early.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **TypeScript and [TS Plugin](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/typescript):** Use TypeScript and the TypeScript plugin for better type-safety, and to help you catch errors early.
```

## Before going to production

Before going to production, you can run `next build` to build your application locally and catch any build errors, then run `next start` to measure the performance of your application in a production-like environment.

### Core Web Vitals

> - **[Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse):** Run lighthouse in incognito to gain a better understanding of how your users will experience your site, and to identify areas for improvement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse):** Run lighthouse in incognito to gain a better understanding of how your users will experience your site, and to identify areas for improvement. This is a simulated test and should be paired with looking at field data (such as Core Web Vitals).
```

- **[`useReportWebVitals` hook](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-report-web-vitals):** Use this hook to send [Core Web Vitals](https://web.dev/articles/vitals) data to analytics tools.

> ### Regions and runtimes

Reviewer: I'd cut this section 👍

Reviewer 3: Yes, agree, will cut 👍🏼

### Analyzing bundles

Use the [`@next/bundle-analyzer` plugin](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/bundle-analyzer) to analyze the size of your JavaScript bundles and identify large modules and dependencies that might be impacting your application's performance.

Additionally, the following tools can you understand the impact of adding new dependencies to your application:

- [Import Cost](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wix.vscode-import-cost)
- [Package Phobia](https://packagephobia.com/)
- [Bundle Phobia](https://bundlephobia.com/)
- [bundlejs](https://bundlejs.com/)

## After deployment

Depending on where you deploy your application, you might have access to additional tools and integrations to help you monitor and improve your application's performance.

For Vercel deployments, we recommend the following:

> - **[Logging](https://vercel.com/integrations#logging), [Monitoring](https://vercel.com/integrations#monitoring), and [Observability](https://vercel.com/integrations#observability):** See Vercel's integrations page for a list of available tools and services to help you monitor your application's performance.

Reviewer: We might want to link to the Vercel logs/monitoring products, and then say "or use integrations". Also, let's add the UTM params for Vercel links 👍

Reviewer 3: Thank you, will do 🙏🏼

> - **[Analytics Dashboard](https://vercel.com/analytics):** Use the Vercel dashboard for real-world performance insights based on actual visitor data, offering a practical view of how your website is performing in the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Speed Insights](https://vercel.com/analytics):** Vercel provides real-world performance insights based on visitor data, offering a practical view of how your website is performing in the field.
```

- Follow the recommended [composition patterns](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/composition-patterns) for Server and Client Components.
- [Lazy load](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/lazy-loading) Client Components and third-party libraries, where appropriate.

### Optimizations

- Optimize fonts with the [next/font](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts)
- Optimize images with [next/image](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/images)
- Optimize scripts with [next/script](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/scripts)

### Static assets

- Use the [public directory](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/static-assets) to automatically cache static assets like images.

### Type Safety

- Use the [TypeScript IDE plugin](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/typescript) for better type-safety, and to help you catch errors early.

### Accessibility

- [Validate form fields and handle errors](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#server-side-validation-and-error-handling) appropriately.

> - Use [ESlint](/docs/architecture/accessibility) to catch accessibility issues early.

Reviewer 3: Note to self, update this link, it's not correct

- **[Dynamic Functions](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#dynamic-functions):** Be aware that dynamic functions like [`cookies()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies) and [`useSearchParams()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-search-params) will opt the entire route into [Dynamic Rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#dynamic-rendering) (or your whole application if used in the [Root Layout](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/pages-and-layouts#root-layout-required)). Ensure dynamic function usage is intentional and wrap them in `<Suspense>` boundaries where appropriate.

> **Good to know**: [Partial Prerendering (Experimental)](/blog/next-14#partial-prerendering-preview) will allow parts of a route to be dynamic without opting the whole route into dynamic rendering.

> <AppOnly>

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't this close the `<AppOnly>` on the 40th line?

Reviewer 3: Yes, good catch 🙏🏼
